README.md, before:

# Job Posting Pay Estimator

In this notebook we use the [LinkedIn Job Postings (2023 - 2024)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arshkon/linkedin-job-postings) kaggle dataset to estimate job pay based on a job title and the state it is in. As we analyze the data, we use the [Plotly](https://plotly.com/python/) library for visualizations. We train the XGBRegressor model from the [DMLC XGBoost](https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/) library to estimate the job pay. The XGBoost model only allows numeric inputs. So, we use the [Sci-kit Learn](https://scikit-learn.org/) library to pipe our data through transformers that translate the job titles and states into numbers and interact with XGBoost. We use the Sci-kit Learn OneHotEncoder to transform the state. Since the job titles have such a high cardinality, we need to represent them differently. So, we use the [Gensim](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/) library Word2Vec model to create word embedding vectors representing the job titles for XGBoost. After training XGBRegressor, we use IPython to make a small user interface to estimate the job pay based on the job title and state.

#### Notebook URL: https://colab.research.google.com/github/Trail3lazer/pay-estimator/blob/main/pay-estimator.ipynb

## Sources

| name | url | modified |
| ---- | --- | -------- |
| LinkedIn Job Postings (2023 - 2024) Dataset | https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arshkon/linkedin-job-postings | Y | 
| DMLC XGBoost | https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/ | N |
| Sci-kit Learn (sklearn) | https://scikit-learn.org/ | N |
| Gensim | https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/ | N |
| Plotly | https://plotly.com/python/ | N |
| Other python dependencies | ... | N |
| job_fields.json | https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_stru.htm | Y |
| bls_gob_jobs.json and job_categories.json | https://www.bls.gov/ooh/a-z-index.htm | Y |
| state_abbr.json | https://gist.github.com/JeffPaine/3083347 | Y |
| State matching regex | https://sigpwned.com/2023/06/29/regex-for-50-us-states/ | Y |
| Full-time and part-time hours | https://www.bls.gov/charts/american-time-use/emp-by-ftpt-job-edu-h.htm | Y |
| Number of vacation days | [https://www.bls.gov/ebs/factsheets/paid-vacations](https://www.bls.gov/ebs/factsheets/paid-vacations.htm#:~:text=The%20number%20of%20vacation%20days,19%20days%20of%20paid%20vacation) | Y |
| Number of federal holidays | https://www.ca2.uscourts.gov/clerk/calendars/federal_holidays.html | Y |

Commit message:

Include the user guide in the readme.

README.md, after:

# Job Posting Pay Estimator

In this notebook we use the [LinkedIn Job Postings (2023 - 2024)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arshkon/linkedin-job-postings) kaggle dataset to estimate job pay based on a job title and the state it is in. As we analyze the data, we use the [Plotly](https://plotly.com/python/) library for visualizations. We train the XGBRegressor model from the [DMLC XGBoost](https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/) library to estimate the job pay. The XGBoost model only allows numeric inputs. So, we use the [Sci-kit Learn](https://scikit-learn.org/) library to pipe our data through transformers that translate the job titles and states into numbers and interact with XGBoost. We use the Sci-kit Learn OneHotEncoder to transform the state. Since the job titles have such a high cardinality, we need to represent them differently. So, we use the [Gensim](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/) library Word2Vec model to create word embedding vectors representing the job titles for XGBoost. After training XGBRegressor, we use IPython to make a small user interface to estimate the job pay based on the job title and state.

## User Guide
### Prerequisites
- Google Chrome Browser

### Guide
1. Open Google Chrome.
2. Navigate to this URL: https://colab.research.google.com/github/Trail3lazer/pay-estimator/blob/main/pay-estimator.ipynb
3. Click Format > Run all.
4. Click Run anyway.
5. The application will run for ~5 minutes to set up the visualizations and estimation model. If the play button to the left of a cell has a circling line, it is running. A dotted line means it is queued to run. A green checkmark means it completed that cell.
6. You can scroll through the application to see information and charts as it loads. The application also includes detailed explanations about how it works. Be aware that calculated statistical or chart information may not be available/visible until those cells are complete.
7. After completing the last code cell, scroll to the “Try It Out” section. The text before the code provides additional information about how the UI works.
8. Below the code block, use the UI to type in a job title or description and select the state where you want the pay estimate to be made. The application will then estimate the pay based on the information you enter.

## Sources

| name | url | modified |
| ---- | --- | -------- |
| LinkedIn Job Postings (2023 - 2024) Dataset | https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arshkon/linkedin-job-postings | Y | 
| DMLC XGBoost | https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/ | N |
| Sci-kit Learn (sklearn) | https://scikit-learn.org/ | N |
| Gensim | https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/ | N |
| Plotly | https://plotly.com/python/ | N |
| Other python dependencies | ... | N |
| job_fields.json | https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_stru.htm | Y |
| bls_gob_jobs.json and job_categories.json | https://www.bls.gov/ooh/a-z-index.htm | Y |
| state_abbr.json | https://gist.github.com/JeffPaine/3083347 | Y |
| State matching regex | https://sigpwned.com/2023/06/29/regex-for-50-us-states/ | Y |
| Full-time and part-time hours | https://www.bls.gov/charts/american-time-use/emp-by-ftpt-job-edu-h.htm | Y |
| Number of vacation days | [https://www.bls.gov/ebs/factsheets/paid-vacations](https://www.bls.gov/ebs/factsheets/paid-vacations.htm#:~:text=The%20number%20of%20vacation%20days,19%20days%20of%20paid%20vacation) | Y |
| Number of federal holidays | https://www.ca2.uscourts.gov/clerk/calendars/federal_holidays.html | Y |
